I mean, it makes me a little bit sad because your work is both,
um, from a computer science perspective, fascinating.
And the inference engine from a epistological philosophical aspect.
Fascinating, but you know, it is also,
you're running a company and there's some stuff that has to remain private.
I it's sad.
Well, here, here's something that may make you feel better.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> a little bit better. Um, we're um, we've formed a, uh,
not, not for profit company, uh,
called the knowledge X immunization Institute next K ax mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And I have this firm belief with a lot of empirical evidence to
support it, that the,
the education that people get in high schools in colleges,
in graduate schools and so on is almost completely
orthogonal to almost completely irrelevant to
how good they're going to be at coming up to speed in doing this kind of
ontological engineering and writing these assertions and rules and so on
in, in psych.
And so very often we'll interview candidates who have their PhD in
philosophy. Who've taught logic for years and so on, and they're just,
they're just awful, but the converse is true.
So one of the best ontological engineers we ever had never graduated high
school. And so the purpose of, um,
knowledge Institute, if we can get some,
some foundations to help support it is identify people in the general
population, maybe high school,
dropouts who have latent talent for this sort of thing,
um,
offer them effectively scholarships to train them and then
help place them in companies that need more trained ontological
engineers, some of which would be working for us,
but mostly would be working for partners or customers or something.
And if we could do that,
that would create an enormous number of relatively very high paying jobs
for people who currently, um, have no, no way out of some,
you know, um, situation that they're locked into.
So is there something you can put into words that describes somebody
who would be great at ontological engineering?
So what characteristics about a person make them a great at this
task,
this task of converting the messiness of
human language and knowledge yes. Into formal.
Logic. This is very much like what, um,
Alan touring had to do during world war II, uh,
in trying to find people to bring to Bley park where he would publish
in the London times, cryptic crossword puzzles, along with some,
some innocuous looking note, which essentially said if,
if you were able to solve this puzzle in less than 15 minutes,
please call this phone number <laugh> and so on. So, um, you know,
or, uh, back when I was young, there was, uh, uh, the practice of having,
uh, matchbooks where on the inside of the matchbook, um, there would be a,
can you draw this? You have a career in art, mm-hmm,
<affirmative> a commercial art, if you can copy this, uh, drawing, you know,
and so on. So, um, yes, the, the analog of that was there.
A little test to get to the core of whether you're gonna be good or.
Not. So part of it has to do with, uh, being able to, um,
make and appreciate, um, um,
and react negatively appropriately to puns and other jokes. So you have to, uh,
have a kind of sense of humor and if you're good at, uh, telling jokes and,
um, good at understanding jokes, that's, that's one indicator like pun. Yes.
Like dad jokes. Yes. Well, maybe not dad jokes, but real but funny jokes. Um,
but, uh, I.
Think I'm applying to work at psych court <laugh>.
Yeah. But, um,
another another is if you're able to introspect so very all often, um,
uh, we'll, we'll give someone a simple question and we'll say like, um, um,
what, why, why is this? And, you know, sometimes they'll just say,
because it is okay, that's a bad sign,
but very often they'll be able to introspect and so on. So one of the questions,
um, I often ask is I'll point to a sentence with a pronoun in it. And I'll say,
um, you know, the referend of that pronoun is obviously this now and over here,
um, you know, how would you or I, or an AI or a five year old,
10 year old child know that that pronoun refers to that now and
over here. Um, and um, often, um,
the people who are going to be good at ontological engineering will give me some
causal explanation or will refer to some things that are true in the world.
So if you imagine a sentence,
like the horse was led into the barn while its head was still wet mm-hmm
<affirmative>. And so its head refers to the horse's head,
but how do you know that? So some people will say, I just know it.
Some people will say, well,
the horse was the subject of the sentence and I'll say, okay, well,
what about the horse was led into the barn while its roof was still wet.
Now it's roof obviously refers to the barn. Um, and so then they'll say,
oh, well, that's because it's the closest noun. And so,
so basically if they try to give me the answers,
which are based on syntax and grammar and so on,
that's a really bad sign. But if they're able to say things like, well,
horses have heads and barns don't and barns have roofs and horses don't um,
then that's a positive sign that they're gonna be good at this because they can
introspect on what's true in the world that leads you to know certain things.
How.
Fascinating is it that getting a PhD makes you less capable to introspect
deeply about this?
Oh, I'm not. I wouldn't, I wouldn't be that far.
I'm not saying that it makes you less capable.
Let's just say it's independent of, oh, I don't know of how.
Good people are. You're not saying that I'm saying that there's a certain,
it's interesting that for a lot of people, uh, PhDs, uh, sorry,
philosophy aside that sometimes education narrows your thinking
versus expands it. Yes. It's kind of fascinating. And for certain,
when you're trying to do on theological engineering,
which is essentially teach our future AI overlords,
how to reason deeply about this world and how to understand it,
that that requires that you think deeply about the world.
So I'll, I'll tell you a sad story about math craft,
which is why is that not widely used in schools today? Um, we're not,
not really trying to make big profit on it or anything like that. The,
when we we've gone to schools, their attitude has been well.
If a student spends 20 hours going through this math craft program
from start to end and so on, um,
will it improve their score on this standardized test?
More than if they spent 20 hours just doing mindless drills of
problem after problem after problem. And the answer is, well, no,
but it'll increase their understanding more. And their attitude is, well,
if it doesn't increase their score on this test, um, then that's not,
you know, we're not gonna adopt it.